---
title: Paradata
summary: Summarized
date: "2019-12-03"

reading_time: false # Show estimated reading time?
share: false # Show social media stuff?
profile: false # Show author profile?
comments: false # Show comments?

# Optional header image (relative to 'static/img/' folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
 
---  

This document contains paradata for [they're counting on you.](https://nickmcneilly.github.io/shinersgame/). In it, I hope to summarize the processes that went into the creation of the game over the course of 2-3 months.

Initially came the planning phase. This being a public history project, there were some criteria it had to meet: first, it had to involve the city of Ottawa. Second, it need to incorporate some sort of physicality. As evident in my first Devlog post, I hadn't even considered the possibility of researching the Shiners at first - mostly because I didn't know they had even existed. I stumbled onto them when researching Ottawa's homicide history, which was a concept I had already started researching in earnest as a possible avenue for my project. The shift seemed natural - I wanted to avoid causing harm to any families of homicide victims, and I had been struggling to discover a means to do so without neutering my project. The Shiners presented something of a blank slate, but they were also a tantalizingly interesting topic for me. Ottawa is often perceived as a 'boring' city, for better or worse, and the idea that the town was once ruled by a Mad Max-eqsue gang of rampaging gangsters certainly challenges that perception.

At first, I'd planned to make an interactive map, but I soon discovered I was treading too harshly on the toes of my predececssors - Nathalie Picard had done something similar with her project, [Ottawa's First Chinatown](https://nathpicard.github.io/Old-Chinatown-Ottawa/), and lacking direction on my own I had begun to take her idea and run with it. I eventually reconsidered. I have a passion for games and creative writing, and I wanted to put those passions to use. Enter Twine. I had some experience with Twine, (TBC)
